what keeps us healthy and happy as we go
through life if you were going to invest
now in your future best self where would
you put your time and your energy there
was a recent survey of Millennials
asking them what their most important
life goals were and over 80% said that a
major life goal for them was to get rich
and another 50% of those same young
adults said that another major life goal
was to become famous and we're
constantly told to lean in to work to
push harder and achieve more we're given
the impression that these are the things
that we need to go after in order to
have a good life pictures of entire
lives of the choices that people make
and how those choices work out for them
those pictures are almost impossible to
get most of what we know about human
life we know from asking people to
remember the past and as we know
hindsight is anything but 20/20 we
forget vast amounts of what happens to
us in life and sometimes memory is
downright creative but what if we could
watch entire lives as they unfold
through time what if we could study
people from the time that they were
teenagers all the way into old age to
see what really keeps people happy and
healthy we did that the Harvard study of
adult development may be the longest
study of adult life that's ever been
done for 75 years we've tracked the
lives of 724 men year after year asking
about their work their home lives their
health and of
course asking all along the way without
knowing how their life stories were
going to turn out studies like this are
exceedingly rare almost all projects of
this kind fall apart within a decade
because too many people drop out of the
study or funding for the research dries
up or the researchers get distracted or
they die
and nobody moves the ball further down
the field but through a combination of
luck and the persistence of several
generations of researchers this study
has survived about 60 of our original
724 men are still alive still
participating in the study most of them
in their 90's and we are now beginning
to study the more than 2,000 children of
these men and I'm the fourth director of
the study since 1938 we've tracked the
lives of two groups of men the first
group started in the study when they
were sophomores at Harvard College they
all finished college during World War
two
and then most went off to serve in the
war and the second group that we've
followed was a group of boys from
Boston's poorest neighborhoods boys who
were chosen for the study specifically
because they were from some of the most
troubled and disadvantaged families in
the Boston of the 1930s most lived in
tenements many without hot and cold
running water when they entered the
study all of these teenagers were
interviewed they were given medical
exams we went to their homes and we
interviewed their parents and then these
teenagers grew up into adults who
entered all walks of life they became
factory workers and lawyers and
bricklayers and doctors one president of
the United States some developed
alcoholism a few develop schizophrenia
some climbed the social ladder from the
bottom all the way to the very top
and some made that journey in the
opposite direction the founders of this
study would never in their wildest
dreams have imagined that I would be
standing here today 75 years later
telling you that the study still
continues every two years our patient
and dedicated research staff calls up
our men and asked them if we can send
them yet one more set of questions about
their lives many of the inner-city
boston men ask us why do you keep
wanting to study me my life just isn't
that interesting the Harvard men never
asked that question to get the clearest
picture of these lives we don't just
send them questionnaires we interview
them in their living rooms we get their
medical records from their doctors we
draw their blood we scan their brains we
talked to their children we videotape
them talking with their wives about
their deepest concerns and when about a
decade ago we finally asked the wives if
they would join us as members of the
study many of the women said you know
it's about time so what have we learned
what are the lessons that come from the
tens of thousands of pages of
information that we've generated on
these lives
well the lessons aren't about wealth or
fame or working harder and harder the
clearest message that we get from this
75 year study is this good relationships
keep us happier and healthier period
we've learned three big lessons about
relationships the first is that social
connections are really good for us and
that loneliness kills it turns out that
people who are more socially connected
to family to friends to community are
happier they're physically healthier and
they live longer than people who are
less well-connected and the experience
of loneliness turns out to be toxic
people who are more isolated than they
want to be from others find that they
are less happy their health declines
earlier in midlife their brain
functioning declined sooner and they
live shorter lives than people who are
not lonely and the sad fact is that at
any given time more than one in five
Americans will report that they're
lonely and we know that you can be
lonely in a crowd and you can be lonely
in a marriage so the second big lesson
that we learned is that it's not just
the number of friends you have and it's
not whether or not you're in a committed
relationship but it's the quality of
your close relationships that matters it
turns out that living in the midst of
conflict is really bad for our health
high conflict marriages for example
without much affection turn out to be
very bad for our health perhaps worse
than getting divorced and living in the
midst of good warm relationships is
protective once we had followed our men
all the way into their 80s we want to
look back at them at midlife and to see
if we could predict who was gonna grow
into a happy healthy octogenarian and
who wasn't and when we gathered together
everything we knew about them at age 50
it wasn't their middle-aged cholesterol
levels that predicted how they were
going to grow old it was how satisfied
they were in their relationships the
people who were the most satisfied in
their relationships at age 50 were the
healthiest at age 80 and good close
relationships seemed to buffer us from
some of the slings and arrows of getting
old our most happily partnered men and
women reported in their 80s that on the
days when they had more physical pain
their moods stayed just as happy but the
people who were in unhappy relationships
on the days when they reported more
physical pain it was magnified by more
emotional pain and the third big lesson
that we learned about relationships on
our health is that good relationships
don't just protect our bodies they
protect our brains it turns out that
being in a securely attached
relationship to another person in your
80s is protective that the people who
are in relationships where they really
feel they can count on the other person
in times of need
those people's memories stay sharper
longer and the people in relationships
where they feel they really can't count
on the other one those are the people
who experience earlier memory decline
and those good relationships they don't
have to be smooth all the time some of
our octogenarian couples could bicker
with each other day in and day out but
as long as they felt that they could
really count on the other when the going
got tough those arguments didn't take a
toll on their memories so this message
that good close relationships are good
for our health and well-being
this is wisdom that's as old as the
hills why is this so hard to get and so
easy to ignore well we're human what
we'd really like is a quick fix
something we can get that'll make our
lives good and keep them that way
relationships are messy and they're
complicated and the the hard work of
tending to family and friends that's not
sexy or glamorous it's also lifelong it
never ends the people in our 75 years
study who were the happiest in
retirement were the people who had
actively worked to replace workmates
with new playmates just like the
Millennials in that recent survey many
of our men when they were starting out
as young adults really believed that
Fame and wealth and high achievement
were what they needed to go after to
have a good life but over and over over
these 75 years our study has shown
that the people who fared the best were
the people who leaned into relationships
with family with friends with community
so what about you let's say you're 25 or
you're 40 or you're 60
what might leaning into relationships
even look like well the possibilities
are practically endless it might be
something as simple as replacing screen
time with people time or lighting up a
stale relationship by doing something
new together long walks or date nights
or reaching out to that family member
who you haven't spoken to in years
because those all-too-common family
feud's take a terrible toll on the
people who hold the grudges I'd like to
close with a quote from Mark Twain more
than a century ago he was looking back
on his life and he wrote this there
isn't time so grief is life for
bickerings apologies heart-burnings
callings to account there is only time
for loving and but an instant so to
speak for that the good life is built
with good relationships thank